# Chapter 50: Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)

> Nguồn: `IMX6ULLRM.pdf` — trang 3465–3496

<!-- page 3465 -->

Chapter 50
Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)
50.1
Overview
The Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF) audio block is a stereo transceiver that allows
the processor to receive and transmit digital audio.
The SPDIF transceiver allows the handling of both SPDIF channel status (CS) and User
(U) data and includes a frequency measurement block that allows the precise
measurement of an incoming sampling frequency.
A recovered clock is provided to drive both internal components in the system, such as
SAI ports, and external components, such as A/Ds or D/As, with clocking control
provided via related registers.
As the SPDIF internal data width is 24-bit, the eight most-significant bits of all registers
return zeros.
The figure below shows a block diagram of the SPDIF transceiver data paths (receiver
and transmitter) and its interface.
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
NXP Semiconductors
3465

<!-- page 3466 -->

SPDIF_IN
SPDIF_OUT
SPDIF OFF
SPDIF
RECEIVER
BLOCK
SPDIF
TRANSMITTER
BLOCK
SPDIF_OUT
SELECT
SPDIF_STL
Left Tx Data Reg
Left Tx Data Reg
IP BUS
32-Bit
24-Bit
24-Bit
24-Bit
24-Bit
24-Bit
24-Bit
24-Bit
24-Bit
24-Bit
24-Bit
24-Bit
24-Bit
24-Bit
CChannel_H Rx Reg
CChannel_L Rx Reg
UChannel Rx Reg
QChannel Rx Reg
SPDIF_SRCSH
SPDIF_SRCSL
SQU
SPDIF_SRQ
Rx FIFO LEFT
(16x24)
Rx FIFO RIGHT
(16x24)
Left Rx Data Reg
Right Rx Data Reg
SPDIF_SRR
SPDIF_SRL
CChannelCons_H Tx Reg
SPDIF_STCSCH
CChannelCons_L Tx Reg
SPDIF_STCSCL
Tx FIFO LEFT
(16x24)
Tx FIFO RIGHT
(16x24)
SPDIF_STR
Figure 50-1. SPDIF Transceiver Data Interface Block Diagram
Overview
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
3466
NXP Semiconductors

<!-- page 3467 -->

50.2
External Signals
The following table describes the external signals of SPDIF:
Table 50-1. SPDIF External Signals
Signal
Description
Pad
Mode
Direction
SPDIF_EXT_CLK
External clock signal
LCD_DATA07
ALT4
I
NAND_DQS
ALT1
SPDIF_IN
Input line
GPIO1_IO09
ALT2
I
LCD_DATA08
ALT4
SD1_CLK
ALT1
UART1_RX_DATA
ALT6
SPDIF_LOCK
Lock signal
LCD_DATA06
ALT4
O
SPDIF_OUT
Output line signal
GPIO1_IO08
ALT2
O
JTAG_MOD
ALT4
LCD_DATA05
ALT1
SD1_CMD
ALT6
UART1_TX_DATA
ALT6
SPDIF_SR_CLK
SR clock signal
LCD_DATA04
ALT4
O
50.3
Clocks
The table found here describes the clock sources for SPDIF.
Please see clock control block for clock setting, configuration and gating information.
Table 50-2. SPDIF Clocks
Clock name
Clock Root
Description
gclkw_t0
ipg_clk_root
Global clock
ipg_clk_s
ipg_clk_root
Peripheral access clock
tx_clk
spdif0_clk_root
Module Tx clock
50.4
Functional Description
The SPDIF is composed of two parts: SPDIF Receiver and SPDIF Transmitter.
Chapter 50 Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
NXP Semiconductors
3467

<!-- page 3468 -->

The SPDIF receiver extracts the audio data from each SPDIF frame and places the data in
the SPDIF Rx left and right FIFOs. The Channel Status and User Bits are also extracted
from each frame and placed in the corresponding registers. The SPDIF receiver also
provides a bypass option for direct transfer of the SPDIF input signal to the SPDIF
transmitter.
For the SPDIF transmitter, the audio data is provided by the processor via the
SPDIFTxLeft and SPDIFTxRight registers. The Channel Status bits are also provided via
the corresponding registers. The SPDIF transmitter generates a SPDIF output bitstream in
the biphase mark format (IEC60958), which consists of audio data, channel status and
user bits.
In the SPDIF transmitter, the IEC60958 biphase bit stream is generated on both edges of
the SPDIF Transmit clock. The SPDIF Transmit clock is generated by the SPDIF internal
clock generate block and the sources are from outside of the SPDIF block. For the SPDIF
receiver, it can recover the SPDIF Rx clock. Figure 1 shows the clock structure of the
SPDIF transceiver.
SPDIF_IN
SPDIF_OUT
SPDIF OUT
DIV
DPLL
SPDIF Rx BLOCK
SPDIF Rx Clock
SPDIF Tx Clock
SPDIF Tx BLOCK
SPDIF_EXT_CLK
ipg_clk
DIV
2-512
1-128
REF_CLK_32K (XTALOSC)
tx_clk (SPDIF_CLK_ROOT)
STC[SYSCLK_DF]
STC[TXCLK_DF]
SRPC[CLKSRC_SEL]
:
:
Figure 50-2. SPDIF Transceiver Clock Diagram
Functional Description
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
3468
NXP Semiconductors

<!-- page 3469 -->

50.4.1
SPDIF Receiver
The SPDIF receiver extracts the audio data from each SPDIF frame and places the data in
Rx left and right FIFOs.
The Tx left and right FIFOs are 16-deep and 24-bit-wide (equal to the audio data width).
The Channel Status and User Bits are also extracted from each frame and placed in
corresponding registers. The SPDIF receiver also provides a bypass option for direct
transfer of the SPDIF input signal to the SPDIF transmitter.
The SPDIF receiver handles the main data audio stream and recovers the bit clock from
the SPDIF input signal. The sample rate can be determined from the frequency measuring
block. Additionally, the receiver supports the SPDIF C and U channels. The SPDIF C
and U channel data is interfaced directly to memory-mapped registers.
All the data registers are controlled by the Interrupt Control Block and transferred to the
memory-mapped IP bus.
The following functions are performed by the SPDIF receiver:
• Audio Data Reception see Audio Data Reception
• Channel Status bits Reception see Channel Status Reception
• U Channel bits Reception see User Bit Reception
• Validity Flag Reception see Validity Flag Reception
• SPDIF Receiver Exception support see SPDIF Receiver
• SPDIF Lock Detection
50.4.1.1
Audio Data Reception
The SPDIF Receiver block extracts the audio data from the IEC60958 stream, and
outputs this via Rx left and right FIFOs to the memory-mapped registers SPDIFRxLeft
and SPDIFRxRight.
Data from the SPDIF receiver is buffered in receive FIFO, and can be read by the
processor from the memory-mapped registers.
• SPDIF receiver data registers - Behavior on overrun, underrun
The SPDIF Data Receive registers (SPDIFRxLeft and SPDIFRxRight) have individual
FIFOs for left and right channel. As a result, there is always the possibility that left and
right FIFOs may go out of sync due to FIFO underruns and FIFO overruns that affect
Chapter 50 Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
NXP Semiconductors
3469

<!-- page 3470 -->

only one part (left or right) of any FIFOs. To prevent this from happening, hardware has
been added to the device. Two mechanisms to prevent mismatch between the FIFOs are
available.
If a SPDIF Data Rx FIFO overrun occurs on e.g. the right half of the FIFO, the sample
that caused the overrun is not written to the right half (due to overrun). Special hardware
will make sure the next sample is not written to the left half of the FIFO. If the overrun
occurs on the left half of the FIFO, the next sample is not written to the right half of the
FIFO.
• SPDIF receiver data registers - Automatic resynchronization of FIFOs
An automatic FIFO resynchronization feature is available. It can be enabled and disabled
separately for every FIFO. If it is enabled, the hardware will check to see if the left and
right FIFOs are in sync. If that is not the case, it will set the filling pointer of the right
FIFO to be equal to the filling pointer of the left FIFO.
Standby
Off
On
Figure 50-3. FIFO Auto-resync Controller State Machine
The operation is explained from the state diagram shown above. Every FIFO auto-resync
controller has a state machine with 3 states: Off, StandBy and On. In the On state, the
filling of the left FIFO is compared with the filling of right, and if they are not equal,
right is made equal to left, and an interrupt is generated.
Functional Description
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
3470
NXP Semiconductors

<!-- page 3471 -->

The controller will stay in Off state when the feature is disabled. When not disabled, the
state machine will go to Off state on any processor read or write to the FIFO. It will go
from On or Off to Standby on any left sample read from SPDIF Tx FIFOs, or on any left
sample write to SPDIF Rx FIFOs. The controller will go from Standby to On on any right
sample read from SPDIF Tx FIFO, or on any right sample write to SPDIF Rx FIFO.
There is a control bit in the SPDIFConfig register to enable/disable the feature for the
SPDIF Rx FIFO and SPDIF Tx FIFO.
50.4.1.1.1
Application Note
The automatic FIFO resynchronization can be switched on, and will avoid all mismatches
between left and right FIFOs, if the software obeys the following rules: 1. When the left
data is read or written to the left FIFO, in the same place of the program, data must be
read or written to the right FIFO. Maximum time difference between left and right is 1/2
sample clock. (E.g. if sample frequency is 44 Khz, approximately 10 micro-seconds. For
88 Khz, approximately 5 micro-seconds.) 2. Write/read data to FIFO s at least 2 samples
at the time. If there is a mismatch Left-Right, the resync logic may go on only 1 sample
clock after last data is read/written to the FIFO. Also acceptable is polling the FIFO, if at
least part of the time 2 samples will be read/written to it.
• SPDIF receiver - Additional features
There are three exceptions associated with the SPDIF Receivers FIFOs
• full
• under/overrun
• resync
When the "full" condition is set for processor data input registers, the processor should
read data from the FIFO, before overrun occurs. When "full" is set, and the FIFO
contains e.g. 6 samples, it is acceptable for the software to read first 6 samples from the
LEFT address, followed by 6 samples from the RIGHT address, or 6 samples from the
RIGHT address, followed by 6 samples from the LEFT address, or 1 sample LEFT,
followed by 1 sample RIGHT repeated 6 times. There is no order specified.
The implementation for SPDIF Rx is a double FIFO, one for left and one for right. "full"
is set when both FIFOs are full. "underrun, overrun" are set when one of the FIFOs do
underrun or do overrun. The resync interrupt means hardware took special action to
resynchronize left and right FIFOs.
The FIFO level at which the "full" interrupt is generated, is programmable via the Full
Select field in the SPDIFConfigReg register.
Rx FIFO on and Rx FIFO reset.
Chapter 50 Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
NXP Semiconductors
3471

<!-- page 3472 -->

Two additional control fields of the SPDIF Rx FIFO are the on/off select and FIFO reset
fields.
If on/off select is set to off, all-zero will be read from the FIFO, irrespective of the data
received over the SPDIF interface.
If FIFO reset is set, the FIFO is blocked at "1 sample in FIFO". In this, the full interrupt
will be on if FullSelect is set to "00". If FullSelect is set to any other value, interrupt will
be off. The other interrupts are always off.
50.4.1.2
Channel Status Reception
A total of 48 channel status bits are received in two registers. No interpretation is
performed by the SPDIF receiver block.
Channel Status Bits are ordered first bit left. CS-channel MSB bit "0" is located in bit
position 23 in the memory-mapped register SPDIFRxCChannel_h. CS-channel bit "23" is
considered the LSB bit 0 in the register. C-channel bit 24 to 47 is seen as [23:0] bits of
register SPDIFRxCChannel_l.
50.4.1.2.1
Channel Status Interrupt
When the value of a new SPDIF "CS" channel status frame is loaded in the register, an
interrupt is generated. The interrupt is cleared when the processor writes the
corresponding bit in the InterruptStat register.
50.4.1.3
User Bit Reception
There are two modes for U Channel reception, CD and non-CD. As is decided by
USyncMode (bit 1 of CDText_Control register).
• Behavior of U Channel receive interface on incoming CD U Channel Sub-code
in SPDIF receiver.
This mode is selected if UsyncMode, bit 1 in register CD Text control is set "1".
The CD sub-code stream embedded into the SPDIF U channel consists of a sequence of
packets. Every packet is made up 98 "symbols". The first two symbols of every packet
are "sync symbols", the other 96 symbols are "data symbols".
Any sequence found in the SPDIF U channel stream starting with a leading one, followed
by 7 information bits, is recognized as a "data symbol". Subsequent data symbols are
separated by "pauses". During the "pause", "zero bits" are seen on the SPDIF U channel.
Functional Description
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
3472
NXP Semiconductors

<!-- page 3473 -->

Data symbols are coming in MSB first. The MSB is the leading one.
When a "long pause" is seen between 2 subsequent "data symbols", the SPDIF receiver
will assume the reception of one or more "sync symbols". Table below gives details.
Table 50-3. Sync Control Bits
Number of U Channel zero bits
Corresponding number of sync symbols
0-1
Unpredictable, not allowed
2-10
0
11-22
1
23-34
2
35-46
3
>45
Unpredictable, not allowed
The recognition of the number of sync symbols derives from the fact that the U channel
transmitter in the CD channel decoder will transmit one symbol on average every 12
SPDIF channel bits. On this average rate, there is a maximum tolerance of 5%.
The SPDIF receiver is tolerant of symbol errors. Due to the physical nature of the
transmission of the data over the CD disc, not more than 1 out of any 5 consecutive user
channel symbols may be in error. The error may cause a change in data value, which is
not detected by this interface, or it may cause a data symbol to be seen as a sync symbol,
or a sync symbol to be seen as a data symbol. However, not more than 1 out of any 5
consecutive user channel symbols should be affected in this way.
The SPDIF U channel circuitry recognizes the 98-symbol packet structure, and sends the
96 symbol payload to the processor application. The 96 symbol payload is transmitted to
the processor via 2 registers:
• The SPDIFRxUChannel register. In this register, data is presented 3 symbols at the
time to the processor. Every time 3 new valid symbols, received on the SPDIF U
Channel are present, the UChannelRxFull interrupt is asserted. For one 98-symbol
packet, 96 symbols are carried across SPDIFRxUChannel. To transfer all this data,
32 UChannelRxFull interrupts are generated.
• The QChannelReceive register. In this register, only the Q bit of the packet is
accumulated.Operation is similar to UChannelReceive. Because only Q-bit is
transferred, only 96 Q-bits are transferred for any 98-symbol packet. To transfer this
data, 4 QChannelRxFull interrupts are generated. When QChannelRxFull occurs, it is
coincident with UChannelRxFull. There is only one QChannelRxFull for every 8
UChannelRxFull. The convention is that most significant data is transmitted first,
and is left-aligned in the registers.
• Timing regarding packet boundary is extracted by hardware. The last
UChannelRxFull corresponding to a given packet should be coincident with the last
Chapter 50 Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
NXP Semiconductors
3473

<!-- page 3474 -->

QChannelRxFull. In this last U, Q channel interrupt, symbols 95-98 are received, Q
channel bits 67-98. The interrupts are coincident with UQSyncFound, flagging last
symbols of the current frame.
• When the start of the new packet is found before the current packet is complete (less
than 98 symbols in the packet), the UQFrameError interrupt is set. The application
software should read out UChannelReceive and QchannelReceive registers, discard
the value, and assume the start of a new packet.
• As already said, packet sync extraction is tolerant for single-symbol errors. Packet
sync detection is based on the recognition of the sequence data-sync-sync-data in the
symbol stream, because this is the only syncing sequence that is not affected by
single errors. If the sync symbols are not found 98 symbols after the previous
occurrence, it is assumed to be destroyed by channel error, and a new sync symbols
is interpolated.
• Normally, only data bytes are passed to the application software. Every databyte will
have its most significant bit set. If sync symbols are passed to the application
software, they are seen as all-zero symbols. Sync symbols can only end up in the data
stream due to channel error.
• Behavior of U Channel receive interface on incoming non-CD data.
This mode is selected if UsyncMode, bit 1 in register CD Text control is set'0'.
In non-CD mode, the SPDIF U channel stream is recognized as a sequence of "data
symbols". No packet recognition is done.
Any sequence found in the SPDIF U channel stream starting with a leading one, followed
by 7 information bits, is recognized as a "data symbol". Subsequent data symbols are
separated by "pauses". During the "pause", "zero bits" are seen on the SPDIF U channel.
3 consecutive data symbols seen in the SPDIF U Channel stream are grouped together
into the SPDIFRxUChannel register. First symbol is left, last symbol is right aligned.
When SPDIFRxUChannel contains 3 new data symbols, UChannelRxFull is asserted.
In this mode, the operation of QchannelRx and associated interrupt QchannelRxFull is
reserved, undefined. And the operation of UQFrameError and UQSyncFound is also
reserved, undefined.
The U channel is extracted, and output by the SPDIF Rx on SPDIFRxUChannel-Stream.
When incoming SPDIF data parity error or bit error is detected, and if the next SPDIF
word for that channel is error-free, the SPDIF word in error is replaced with the average
of the previous word and next word. When incoming SPDIF data parity error or bit error
is detected, and the next SPDIF word is in error, the previous SPDIF word is repeated.
Functional Description
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
3474
NXP Semiconductors

<!-- page 3475 -->

50.4.1.4
Validity Flag Reception
An interrupt is associated with the Validity flag. (interrupt 16 - SPDIFValNoGood). This
interrupt is set every time a frame is seen on the SPDIF interface with the validity bit set
to "invalid".
50.4.1.5
SPDIF Receiver Interrupt Exception Definition
Several SPDIF exceptions can trigger an interrupt.
They are:
• Control Status channel change. Set when SPDIFRxCChannel_l register is updated.
The register is updated for every new C-Channel received. The exception is reset on
write to InterruptClear register.
• SPDIF Illegal Symbol. Set on reception of illegal symbol during SPDIF receive.
Reset by writing register InterruptClear.1
• SPDIF bit error. Set on reception of bit error. (Parity bit does not match). Reset on
write to InterruptClear register.
• Receive data FIFO full. Set when SPDIF receive data FIFO is full.
• Receive data FIFO underrun/overrun. Set when there is a underrun/overrun on the
SPDIF receive data FIFO.
• Receive data FIFO resynchronization. Set when a resynchronization event occurs on
the SPDIF receive data FIFO.
• Receive U Channel buffer full. Set when next 24 bits of U channel code are
available.
• Receive Q Channel buffer overrun. Set when Q channel buffer overrun.
• Receive U Channel buffer overrun. Set on U channel buffer overrun.
• Receive Q Channel buffer full. Set when next 24 bits of Q channel code are avail-
able.
• Receive UQ sync found. Set when UQ channel sync found.
• Receive UQ frame error. Set when UQ frame error found.
1.
The SPDIF input is a biphase/mark modulated signal. The time between any two successive transitions of the
SPDIF signal is always 1, 2 or 3 SPDIF symbol periods long. The SPDIF receiver will parse the stream, and split it
in so-called symbols. It recognizes s1, s2 and s3 symbols, depending on the length of the symbols. Not all
sequences of these symbols are allowed. To give an example, a sequence s2-s1-s1-s1-s2 cannot occur in a no-
error SPDIF signal. If the receiver finds such an illegal sequence, the illegal symbol interrupt is set. No corrective
action is undertaken. When the interrupt occurs, this means that(a) The SPDIF signal is destroyed by noise (b) The
SPDIF frequency changed.
Chapter 50 Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
NXP Semiconductors
3475

<!-- page 3476 -->

50.4.1.6
Standards Compliance
The SPDIF interface is compatible with the Tech 3250-E standard of the European
Broadcasting Union, except clause 6.3.3 and the IEC60958-3 Ed2 for relevant topics.
Supported input frequency range is 12 Khz up to 96 Khz. (fully compliant) and 96 Khz
up to 176 Khz (Can interface with compliant SPDIF transmitter within same cabinet,
making reasonable assumptions on jitter added due to interconnecting wire.)
Tolerated jitter on SPDIF input signals are 0.25 bit peak-peak for high frequencies. There
is no jitter limit for low frequencies. The user channel extraction in CD mode is capable
of coping with single-symbol errors, and still retrieve U channel frames on correct
boundaries. This capability is required for reliable reception of CD-Text from some
Philips CD channel decoders. This capability was deemed more important than
compliance with the IEC60958 annex A.3 standard, and for this reason user channel
reception is not compliant with IEC60958 annex A.3. However, the interface is capable
to receive U channel inserted by a typical CD channel decoder. Also, in this case, it is
more robust and tolerant for channel error than what is required by IEC60958 annex A.3.
50.4.1.7
SPDIF PLOCK Detection and Rxclk Output
Using the high speed system clock, the internal DPLL can extract the bit clock (advanced
pulse) from the input bitstream. When this internal DPLL is locked, the LOCK bit of
PhaseConfig Register will be set, and the SPDIF Lock output pin SPDIF_LOCK will be
asserted.
After DPLL has locked, the pulses are generated, and the average pulse rate is 128 x the
sampling frequency.(For a 44.1 Khz input sampling frequency, the average pulse rate =
128 x 44.1 Khz.) The pulse signal is used in the FreqMeas circuit to generate the
frequency measurement result.
50.4.1.8
Measuring Frequency of SPDIF_RxClk
The internal DPLL can extract the bit clock (advanced plus) from the input bitstream. To
do that, it is necessary to measure the frequency of the incoming signal in relationship
with the system clock (BUS_CLK).
Associated with it are two registers, PhaseConfig and FreqMeas. The circuit will measure
the frequency of the incoming clock as a function of the BUS_CLK. The circuit is a
second-order filter. The output is a value represented by an unsigned number stored in the
24-bit FreqMeas register, giving the frequency of the source as a function of the
BUS_CLK.
Functional Description
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
3476
NXP Semiconductors

<!-- page 3477 -->

FreqMeas[23:0] = FreqMeas_CLK / BUS_CLK * 210 * GAIN.
For example, if the GAIN is selected as 8*(2**10) (PhaseConfig[5:3] = 3'b011), the
actual result
FreqMeas_CLK / BUS_CLK is equal to FreqMeas[23:0] / 223.
50.4.2
SPDIF Transmitter
Audio data for the SPDIF transmitter is provided by processor via the SPDIFTxLeft and
SPDIFTxRight registers.
Clocking for SPDIF transmitter is selected through a multiplexer from several clock
sources (see TxClk_Source for clock source inputs). The SPDIF transmitter clock source
can be divided down as needed using Txclk_DF. The SPDIF transmitter output can be
chosen from either the SPDIF transmitter block, directly from the SPDIF receiver (via the
output multiplexer), or disabled.
The SPDIF transmitter generates a SPDIF output bitstream in IEC60958 biphase mark
format, consisting of audio data, channel status.
50.4.2.1
Audio Data Transmission
Audio data for the SPDIF transmitter is provided by the processor via SPDIFTxLeft and
SPDIFTxRight registers. They send audio data to Tx left and right FIFOs. The Tx left
and right FIFOs are also 16-deep and 24-width (equal to the audio data width).
• SPDIF transmitter data registers - Behavior on overrun, underrun
The SPDIF Data Transmit registers (SPDIFTxLeft and SPDIFTxRight) have individual
FIFOs for left and right channel. As a result, there is always the possibility that left and
right FIFOs may go out of sync due to FIFO underruns and FIFO overruns that affect
only one part (left or right) of any FIFO. To prevent this from happening, hardware has
been added on the device. Two mechanisms to prevent mismatch between the FIFOs are
available.
If SPDIF Tx FIFO underruns on the right half of the FIFO, no sample leaves that FIFO
(because it was already empty). Special hardware will make sure that the next sample
read from the left FIFO will not leave the FIFO (no read strobe is generated). If the
underrun occurs on the left half of the FIFO, next read strobe to the right FIFO is
blocked.
• SPDIF transmitter data registers - Automatic resynchronization of FIFOs
Chapter 50 Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
NXP Semiconductors
3477

<!-- page 3478 -->

See Audio Data Reception.
• SPDIFTxLeft, SPDIFTxRight details
With SPDIF Tx FIFOs three exceptions are associated.
• empty
• under/overrun
• resync
When the empty condition is set for processor data output registers, the processor should
write data to the FIFO, before underrun occurs. When empty is set and, for instance, 6
samples need to be written, it is acceptable for the software to write first 6 samples from
the LEFT address, followed by 6 samples from the RIGHT address, or 1 sample LEFT,
followed by 1 sample RIGHT repeated 6 times. Left should be written before right. The
implementation of all data out FIFOs is a double FIFO, one for left and one for right.
Empty is set when both FIFOs are empty. Underrun, overrun are set when one of the
FIFOs do underrun or do overrun. Resync is set when the hardware resynchronizes left
and right FIFOs.
On receiving underrun, overrun interrupt, synchronization between Left and Right words
in the FIFOs may be lost. Synchronization will not be lost when the underrun or overrun
comes from the IEC60958 side of the FIFO. If the processor reads or writes more data
from, for example, left than from right, synchronization will be lost. If automatic
resynchronization is enabled, and if the software obeys the rules to let this work,
resynchronization will be automatic.
50.4.2.2
Channel Status Transmission
A total of 48 Consumer channel status bits are transmitted from two registers. Channel
Status Bits are ordered first bit left.
CS-channel MSB bit "0" is located in bit position 23 in the memory-mapped register
SPDIFTxCChannelCons_h. CS-channel bit "23" is considered bit 0 in the register. C-
channel bits 24-47 are seen as MSB-LSB bits of register SPDIFTxCChannelCons_l.
50.4.2.3
Validity Flag Transmission
The validity bit setting is performed via bit 5 of the SPDIF_SCR register.
50.5
SPDIF Memory Map/Register Definition
SPDIF Memory Map/Register Definition
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
3478
NXP Semiconductors

<!-- page 3479 -->

SPDIF memory map
Absolute
address
(hex)
Register name
Width
(in bits)
Access
Reset value
Section/
page
200_4000
SPDIF Configuration Register (SPDIF_SCR)
32
R/W
0000_0400h
50.5.1/3480
200_4004
CDText Control Register (SPDIF_SRCD)
32
R/W
0000_0000h
50.5.2/3482
200_4008
PhaseConfig Register (SPDIF_SRPC)
32
R/W
0000_0000h
50.5.3/3483
200_400C
InterruptEn Register (SPDIF_SIE)
32
R/W
0000_0000h
50.5.4/3484
200_4010
InterruptStat Register (SPDIF_SIS)
32
R
0000_0002h
50.5.5/3486
200_4010
InterruptClear Register (SPDIF_SIC)
32
W
0000_0000h
50.5.6/3488
200_4014
SPDIFRxLeft Register (SPDIF_SRL)
32
R
0000_0000h
50.5.7/3489
200_4018
SPDIFRxRight Register (SPDIF_SRR)
32
R
0000_0000h
50.5.8/3490
200_401C
SPDIFRxCChannel_h Register (SPDIF_SRCSH)
32
R
0000_0000h
50.5.9/3490
200_4020
SPDIFRxCChannel_l Register (SPDIF_SRCSL)
32
R
0000_0000h
50.5.10/
3491
200_4024
UchannelRx Register (SPDIF_SRU)
32
R
0000_0000h
50.5.11/
3491
200_4028
QchannelRx Register (SPDIF_SRQ)
32
R
0000_0000h
50.5.12/
3492
200_402C
SPDIFTxLeft Register (SPDIF_STL)
32
W
0000_0000h
50.5.13/
3492
200_4030
SPDIFTxRight Register (SPDIF_STR)
32
W
0000_0000h
50.5.14/
3493
200_4034
SPDIFTxCChannelCons_h Register (SPDIF_STCSCH)
32
R/W
0000_0000h
50.5.15/
3493
200_4038
SPDIFTxCChannelCons_l Register (SPDIF_STCSCL)
32
R/W
0000_0000h
50.5.16/
3494
200_4044
FreqMeas Register (SPDIF_SRFM)
32
R
0000_0000h
50.5.17/
3494
200_4050
SPDIFTxClk Register (SPDIF_STC)
32
R/W
0002_0F00h
50.5.18/
3495
Chapter 50 Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
NXP Semiconductors
3479

<!-- page 3480 -->

50.5.1
SPDIF Configuration Register (SPDIF_SCR)
Address: 200_4000h base + 0h offset = 200_4000h
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
R
Reserved
RxFIFO_Ctrl
RxFIFO_Off_On
RxFIFO_Rst
RxFIFOFull_Sel
RxAutoSync
TxAutoSync
TxFIFOEmpty_Sel
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Bit
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
TxFIFOEmpty_Sel
Reserved
LOW_POWER
soft_reset
TxFIFO_Ctrl
DMA_Rx_En
DMA_TX_En
Reserved
ValCtrl
TxSel
USrc_Sel
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
SPDIF_SCR field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
This field is reserved.
23
RxFIFO_Ctrl
0
Normal operation
1
Always read zero from Rx data register
22
RxFIFO_Off_On
0
SPDIF Rx FIFO is on
1
SPDIF Rx FIFO is off. Does not accept data from interface
21
RxFIFO_Rst
0
Normal operation
1
Reset register to 1 sample remaining
20–19
RxFIFOFull_Sel
00
Full interrupt if at least 1 sample in Rx left and right FIFOs
01
Full interrupt if at least 4 sample in Rx left and right FIFOs
10
Full interrupt if at least 8 sample in Rx left and right FIFOs
11
Full interrupt if at least 16 sample in Rx left and right FIFO
18
RxAutoSync
0
Rx FIFO auto sync off
1
RxFIFO auto sync on
17
TxAutoSync
0
Tx FIFO auto sync off
1
Tx FIFO auto sync on
Table continues on the next page...
SPDIF Memory Map/Register Definition
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
3480
NXP Semiconductors

<!-- page 3481 -->

SPDIF_SCR field descriptions (continued)
Field
Description
16–15
TxFIFOEmpty_Sel
00
Empty interrupt if 0 sample in Tx left and right FIFOs
01
Empty interrupt if at most 4 sample in Tx left and right FIFOs
10
Empty interrupt if at most 8 sample in Tx left and right FIFOs
11
Empty interrupt if at most 12 sample in Tx left and right FIFOs
14
-
This field is reserved.
Reserved
13
LOW_POWER
When write 1 to this bit, it will cause SPDIF enter low-power mode.
return 1 when SPDIF in Low-Power mode.
12
soft_reset
When write 1 to this bit, it will cause SPDIF software reset.
The software reset will last 8 cycles.
When in the reset process, return 1 when read.
else return 0 when read.
11–10
TxFIFO_Ctrl
00
Send out digital zero on SPDIF Tx
01
Tx Normal operation
10
Reset to 1 sample remaining
11
Reserved
9
DMA_Rx_En
DMA Receive Request Enable
(RX FIFO full)
8
DMA_TX_En
DMA Transmit Request Enable
(Tx FIFO empty)
7–6
-
This field is reserved.
Reserved
5
ValCtrl
0
Outgoing Validity always set
1
Outgoing Validity always clear
4–2
TxSel
000
Off and output 0
001
Feed-through SPDIFIN
101
Tx Normal operation
Others Reserved
USrc_Sel
00
No embedded U channel
01
U channel from SPDIF receive block (CD mode)
10
Reserved
11
U channel from on chip transmitter
Chapter 50 Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
NXP Semiconductors
3481

<!-- page 3482 -->

50.5.2
CDText Control Register (SPDIF_SRCD)
Address: 200_4000h base + 4h offset = 200_4004h
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
R
Reserved
0
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Bit
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
0
Reserved
0
Reserved
USyncMode
Reserved
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
SPDIF_SRCD field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
This field is reserved.
23–15
Reserved
This read-only field is reserved and always has the value 0.
14–8
-
This field is reserved.
Reserved. set to zero.
7–3
Reserved
This read-only field is reserved and always has the value 0.
2
-
This field is reserved.
Reserved.
1
USyncMode
0
Non-CD data
1
CD user channel subcode
0
-
This field is reserved.
Reserved.
SPDIF Memory Map/Register Definition
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
3482
NXP Semiconductors

<!-- page 3483 -->

50.5.3
PhaseConfig Register (SPDIF_SRPC)
Address: 200_4000h base + 8h offset = 200_4008h
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
R
Reserved
0
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Bit
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
0
ClkSrc_Sel
LOCK
GainSel
0
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
SPDIF_SRPC field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
This field is reserved.
23–11
Reserved
This read-only field is reserved and always has the value 0.
10–7
ClkSrc_Sel
Clock source selection, all other settings not shown are reserved:
0000
if (DPLL Locked) SPDIF_RxClk else REF_CLK_32K (XTALOSC)
0001
if (DPLL Locked) SPDIF_RxClk else tx_clk (SPDIF0_CLK_ROOT)
0011
if (DPLL Locked) SPDIF_RxClk else SPDIF_EXT_CLK
0101
REF_CLK_32K (XTALOSC)
0110
tx_clk (SPDIF0_CLK_ROOT)
1000
SPDIF_EXT_CLK
6
LOCK
LOCK bit to show that the internal DPLL is locked, read only
5–3
GainSel
Gain selection:
000
24*(2**10)
001
16*(2**10)
Table continues on the next page...
Chapter 50 Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
NXP Semiconductors
3483

<!-- page 3484 -->

SPDIF_SRPC field descriptions (continued)
Field
Description
010
12*(2**10)
011
8*(2**10)
100
6*(2**10)
101
4*(2**10)
110
3*(2**10)
Reserved
This read-only field is reserved and always has the value 0.
50.5.4
InterruptEn Register (SPDIF_SIE)
The InterruptEn register (SPDIF_SIE) provides control over the enabling of interrupts.
Address: 200_4000h base + Ch offset = 200_400Ch
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
R
Reserved
0
Reserved
Lock
TxUnOv
TxResyn
CNew
ValNoGood
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Bit
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
SymErr
BitErr
Reserved
URxFul
URxOv
QRxFul
QRxOv
UQSync
UQErr
RxFIFOUnOv
RxFIFOResyn
LockLoss
TxEm
RxFIFOFul
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
SPDIF_SIE field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
This field is reserved.
23
Reserved
This read-only field is reserved and always has the value 0.
22–21
-
This field is reserved.
Reserved. set to zero.
20
Lock
SPDIF receiver's DPLL is locked
19
TxUnOv
SPDIF Tx FIFO under/overrun
Table continues on the next page...
SPDIF Memory Map/Register Definition
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
3484
NXP Semiconductors

<!-- page 3485 -->

SPDIF_SIE field descriptions (continued)
Field
Description
18
TxResyn
SPDIF Tx FIFO resync
17
CNew
SPDIF receive change in value of control channel
16
ValNoGood
SPDIF validity flag no good
15
SymErr
SPDIF receiver found illegal symbol
14
BitErr
SPDIF receiver found parity bit error
13–11
-
This field is reserved.
Reserved. set to zero.
10
URxFul
U Channel receive register full, can't be cleared with reg. IntClear. To clear it, read from U Rx reg.
9
URxOv
U Channel receive register overrun
8
QRxFul
Q Channel receive register full, can't be cleared with reg. IntClear. To clear it, read from Q Rx reg.
7
QRxOv
Q Channel receive register overrun
6
UQSync
U/Q Channel sync found
5
UQErr
U/Q Channel framing error
4
RxFIFOUnOv
Rx FIFO underrun/overrun
3
RxFIFOResyn
Rx FIFO resync
2
LockLoss
SPDIF receiver loss of lock
1
TxEm
SPDIF Tx FIFO empty, can't be cleared with reg. IntClear. To clear it, write toTx FIFO.
0
RxFIFOFul
SPDIF Rx FIFO full, can't be cleared with reg. IntClear. To clear it, read from Rx FIFO.
Chapter 50 Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
NXP Semiconductors
3485

<!-- page 3486 -->

50.5.5
InterruptStat Register (SPDIF_SIS)
The InterruptStat (SPDIF_SIS) register is a read only register that provides the status on
interrupt operations.
Address: 200_4000h base + 10h offset = 200_4010h
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
R
Reserved
0
Lock
TxUnOv
TxResyn
CNew
ValNoGood
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Bit
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
SymErr
BitErr
0
URxFul
URxOv
QRxFul
QRxOv
UQSync
UQErr
RxFIFOUnOv
RxFIFOResyn
LockLoss
TxEm
RxFIFOFul
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
SPDIF Memory Map/Register Definition
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
3486
NXP Semiconductors

<!-- page 3487 -->

SPDIF_SIS field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
This field is reserved.
23–21
Reserved
This read-only field is reserved and always has the value 0.
20
Lock
SPDIF receiver's DPLL is locked
19
TxUnOv
SPDIF Tx FIFO under/overrun
18
TxResyn
SPDIF Tx FIFO resync
17
CNew
SPDIF receive change in value of control channel
16
ValNoGood
SPDIF validity flag no good
15
SymErr
SPDIF receiver found illegal symbol
14
BitErr
SPDIF receiver found parity bit error
13–11
Reserved
This read-only field is reserved and always has the value 0.
10
URxFul
U Channel receive register full, can't be cleared with reg. IntClear. To clear it, read from U Rx reg.
9
URxOv
U Channel receive register overrun
8
QRxFul
Q Channel receive register full, can't be cleared with reg. IntClear. To clear it, read from Q Rx reg.
7
QRxOv
Q Channel receive register overrun
6
UQSync
U/Q Channel sync found
5
UQErr
U/Q Channel framing error
4
RxFIFOUnOv
Rx FIFO underrun/overrun
3
RxFIFOResyn
Rx FIFO resync
2
LockLoss
SPDIF receiver loss of lock
1
TxEm
SPDIF Tx FIFO empty, can't be cleared with reg. IntClear. To clear it, write toTx FIFO.
0
RxFIFOFul
SPDIF Rx FIFO full, can't be cleared with reg. IntClear. To clear it, read from Rx FIFO.
Chapter 50 Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
NXP Semiconductors
3487

<!-- page 3488 -->

50.5.6
InterruptClear Register (SPDIF_SIC)
The InterruptClear (SPDIF_SIC) register is a write only register and is used to clear
interrupts.
Address: 200_4000h base + 10h offset = 200_4010h
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
R
Reserved
0
W
Lock
TxUnOv
TxResyn
CNew
ValNoGood
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Bit
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
Reserved
Reserved
W
SymErr
BitErr
URxOv
-
QRxOv
UQSync
UQErr
RxFIFOUnOv
RxFIFOResyn
LockLoss
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
SPDIF_SIC field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
This field is reserved.
23–21
Reserved
This read-only field is reserved and always has the value 0.
20
Lock
SPDIF receiver's DPLL is locked
19
TxUnOv
SPDIF Tx FIFO under/overrun
Table continues on the next page...
SPDIF Memory Map/Register Definition
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
3488
NXP Semiconductors

<!-- page 3489 -->

SPDIF_SIC field descriptions (continued)
Field
Description
18
TxResyn
SPDIF Tx FIFO resync
17
CNew
SPDIF receive change in value of control channel
16
ValNoGood
SPDIF validity flag no good
15
SymErr
SPDIF receiver found illegal symbol
14
BitErr
SPDIF receiver found parity bit error
13–10
-
This field is reserved.
Reserved.
9
URxOv
U Channel receive register overrun
8
-
Reserved
7
QRxOv
Q Channel receive register overrun
6
UQSync
U/Q Channel sync found
5
UQErr
U/Q Channel framing error
4
RxFIFOUnOv
Rx FIFO underrun/overrun
3
RxFIFOResyn
Rx FIFO resync
2
LockLoss
SPDIF receiver loss of lock
-
This field is reserved.
Reserved.
50.5.7
SPDIFRxLeft Register (SPDIF_SRL)
SPDIFRxLeft register is an audio data reception register.
Address: 200_4000h base + 14h offset = 200_4014h
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
Reserved
RxDataLeft
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Chapter 50 Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
NXP Semiconductors
3489

<!-- page 3490 -->

SPDIF_SRL field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
This field is reserved.
RxDataLeft
Processor receive SPDIF data left
50.5.8
SPDIFRxRight Register (SPDIF_SRR)
SPDIFRxRight register is an audio data reception register.
Address: 200_4000h base + 18h offset = 200_4018h
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
Reserved
RxDataRight
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
SPDIF_SRR field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
This field is reserved.
RxDataRight
Processor receive SPDIF data right
50.5.9
SPDIFRxCChannel_h Register (SPDIF_SRCSH)
SPDIFRxCChannel_h register is a channel status reception register.
Address: 200_4000h base + 1Ch offset = 200_401Ch
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
Reserved
RxCChannel_h
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
SPDIF Memory Map/Register Definition
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
3490
NXP Semiconductors

<!-- page 3491 -->

SPDIF_SRCSH field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
This field is reserved.
RxCChannel_h
SPDIF receive C channel register, contains first 24 bits of C channel without interpretation
50.5.10
SPDIFRxCChannel_l Register (SPDIF_SRCSL)
SPDIFRxCChannel_l register is a channel status reception register.
Address: 200_4000h base + 20h offset = 200_4020h
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
Reserved
RxCChannel_l
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
SPDIF_SRCSL field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
This field is reserved.
RxCChannel_l
SPDIF receive C channel register, contains next 24 bits of C channel without interpretation
50.5.11
UchannelRx Register (SPDIF_SRU)
UChannelRx register is a user bits reception register.
Address: 200_4000h base + 24h offset = 200_4024h
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
Reserved
RxUChannel
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Chapter 50 Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
NXP Semiconductors
3491

<!-- page 3492 -->

SPDIF_SRU field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This field is reserved.
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
RxUChannel
SPDIF receive U channel register, contains next 3 U channel bytes
50.5.12
QchannelRx Register (SPDIF_SRQ)
QChannelRx register is a user bits reception register.
Address: 200_4000h base + 28h offset = 200_4028h
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
Reserved
RxQChannel
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
SPDIF_SRQ field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
This field is reserved.
RxQChannel
SPDIF receive Q channel register, contains next 3 Q channel bytes
50.5.13
SPDIFTxLeft Register (SPDIF_STL)
SPDIFTxLeft register is an audio data transmission register.
Address: 200_4000h base + 2Ch offset = 200_402Ch
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
Reserved
W
TxDataLeft
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
SPDIF Memory Map/Register Definition
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
3492
NXP Semiconductors

<!-- page 3493 -->

SPDIF_STL field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This field is reserved.
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
TxDataLeft
SPDIF transmit left channel data. It is write-only, and always returns zeros when read
50.5.14
SPDIFTxRight Register (SPDIF_STR)
SPDIFTxRight register is an audio data transmission register.
Address: 200_4000h base + 30h offset = 200_4030h
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
Reserved
W
TxDataRight
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
SPDIF_STR field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This field is reserved.
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
TxDataRight
SPDIF transmit right channel data. It is write-only, and always returns zeros when read
50.5.15
SPDIFTxCChannelCons_h Register (SPDIF_STCSCH)
SPDIFTxCChannelCons_h register is a channel status transmission register.
Address: 200_4000h base + 34h offset = 200_4034h
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
Reserved
TxCChannelCons_h
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
SPDIF_STCSCH field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
This field is reserved.
Table continues on the next page...
Chapter 50 Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
NXP Semiconductors
3493

<!-- page 3494 -->

SPDIF_STCSCH field descriptions (continued)
Field
Description
TxCChannelCons_h
SPDIF transmit Cons. C channel data, contains first 24 bits without interpretation. When read, it
returns the latest data written by the processor
50.5.16
SPDIFTxCChannelCons_l Register (SPDIF_STCSCL)
SPDIFTxCChannelCons_l register is a channel status transmission register.
Address: 200_4000h base + 38h offset = 200_4038h
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
Reserved
TxCChannelCons_l
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
SPDIF_STCSCL field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
This field is reserved.
TxCChannelCons_l
SPDIF transmit Cons. C channel data, contains next 24 bits without interpretation. When read, it
returns the latest data written by the processor
50.5.17
FreqMeas Register (SPDIF_SRFM)
Address: 200_4000h base + 44h offset = 200_4044h
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
Reserved
FreqMeas
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
SPDIF_SRFM field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
This field is reserved.
FreqMeas
Frequency measurement data
SPDIF Memory Map/Register Definition
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
3494
NXP Semiconductors

<!-- page 3495 -->

50.5.18
SPDIFTxClk Register (SPDIF_STC)
The SPDIFTxClk Control register includes the means to select the transmit clock and
frequency division.
Address: 200_4000h base + 50h offset = 200_4050h
Bit
31
30
29
28
27
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
R
Reserved
0
SYSCLK_DF
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
Bit
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
R
SYSCLK_DF
TxClk_Source
tx_all_clk_en
TxClk_DF
W
Reset
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
SPDIF_STC field descriptions
Field
Description
31–24
[unimplemented]
This is a 24-bit register the upper byte is unimplemented.
This field is reserved.
23–20
Reserved
This read-only field is reserved and always has the value 0.
19–11
SYSCLK_DF
system clock divider factor, 2~512.
0
no clock signal
1
divider factor is 2
...
...
511
divider factor is 512
10–8
TxClk_Source
000
REF_CLK_32K input (XTALOSC 32 kHz clock)
001
tx_clk input (from SPDIF0_CLK_ROOT. See CCM.)
011
SPDIF_EXT_CLK, from pads
101
ipg_clk input (frequency divided)
7
tx_all_clk_en
Spdif transfer clock enable. When data is going to be transfered, this bit should be set to1.
0
disable transfer clock.
1
enable transfer clock.
TxClk_DF
Divider factor (1-128)
Table continues on the next page...
Chapter 50 Sony/Philips Digital Interface (SPDIF)
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
NXP Semiconductors
3495

<!-- page 3496 -->

SPDIF_STC field descriptions (continued)
Field
Description
0
divider factor is 1
1
divider factor is 2
...
...
127
divider factor is 128
SPDIF Memory Map/Register Definition
i.MX 6ULL Applications Processor Reference Manual, Rev. 1, 11/2017
3496
NXP Semiconductors

