# Signal Descriptions

> Nguồn: `emmc_4gb_8gb_ps8225_v50_wt.pdf` — trang 6–6

<!-- page 6 -->

Signal Descriptions
Table 5: Signal Descriptions
Symbol
Type
Description
CLK
Input
Clock: Each cycle of the clock directs a transfer on the command line and on the data line(s). The
frequency can vary between the minimum and the maximum clock frequency.
RST_n
Input
Reset: The RST_n signal is used by the host for resetting the device, moving the device to the pre-
idle state. By default, the RST_n signal is temporarily disabled in the device. The host must set ECSD
register byte 162, bits[1:0] to 0x1 to enable this functionality before the host can use it.
CMD
I/O
Command: This signal is a bidirectional command channel used for command and response trans-
fers. The CMD signal has two bus modes: open-drain mode and push-pull mode. Commands are
sent from the MMC host to the device, and responses are sent from the device to the host.
DAT[7:0]
I/O
Data I/O: These are bidirectional data signals. The DAT signals operate in push-pull mode. By de-
fault, after power-on or assertion of the RST_n signal, only DAT0 is used for data transfer. The
MMC controller can configure a wider data bus for data transfer either using DAT[3:0] (4-bit mode)
or DAT[7:0] (8-bit mode). The device includes internal pull-up resistors for data lines DAT[7:1]. Im-
mediately after entering the 4-bit mode, the device disconnects the internal pull-up resistors on
the DAT[3:1] lines. Upon entering the 8-bit mode, the device disconnects the internal pull-ups on
the DAT[7:1] lines.
DS
Output
Data strobe: Generated by the device and used for data output and CRC status response output in
HS400 mode. The frequency of this signal follows the frequency of CLK. For data output, each cycle
of this signal directs two bits transfer (2x) on the data, one bit for the positive edge and the other
bit for the negative edge. For CRC status response output, the CRC status is latched on the positive
edge only, and is "Don't Care" on the negative edge.
VCC
Supply
VCC: NAND interface (I/F) I/O and NAND Flash power supply.
VCCQ
Supply
VCCQ: e.MMC controller core and e.MMC I/F I/O power supply.
VSS1
Supply
VSS: NAND I/F I/O and NAND Flash ground connection.
VSSQ1
Supply
VSSQ: e.MMC controller core and e.MMC I/F ground connection.
VDDIM
 
Internal voltage node. Do not tie to supply voltage or ground.
NC
–
No connect: No internal connection is present.
RFU
–
Reserved for future use: No internal connection is present. Leave it floating externally.
Note:
1. VSS and VSSQ are connected internally.
Micron Confidential and Proprietary
4GB, 8GB: e·MMC
Signal Descriptions
PDF: 09005aef86582cce
emmc_4_8GB_ps8225_v50_wt.pdf – Rev. D 2/16 EN
6
Micron Technology, Inc. reserves the right to change products or specifications without notice.
© 2015 Micron Technology, Inc. All rights reserved.

